Improve documentation of the main concepts (#2046)
thin-edge/thin-edge.io: docs/src/understand/thin-edge-json.md

---
title: Thin Edge JSON
tags: [Concept, MQTT]
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Thin Edge JSON format

> Thin Edge JSON is a lightweight format used in `thin-edge.io` to represent telemetry data: measurements, events and alarms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thin Edge JSON is a lightweight format used in `thin-edge.io` to represent telemetry data: measurements, events and alarms, and operations: software update, config update etc.
```

Author: Added

> These data are exchanged over the [MQTT bus](mqtt-bus.md) and sent by the devices and services of a agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These data are exchanged over the [MQTT bus](mqtt-bus.md) by the devices and services.
```

Author: Fixed

## Sending Telemetry Data

> The `thin-edge.io` framework exposes some MQTT endpoints that can be used by local processes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `thin-edge.io` framework exposes some MQTT endpoints that can be used by local processes and other devices connected over the network
```

Author: Added

to exchange data between themselves as well as to get some data forwarded to the cloud.

> It will essentially act like an MQTT broker against which you can write your application logic.

Reviewer 2: It is an MQTT broker, so it is not "acting" as one.

I'm not 100% sure what the purpose of the sentence is, is it to indicate the the MQTT broker should be the main source of data which is used within application logic?

Author: Fully agree, that's confusing. I have to rewrite this paragraph.

Author: For now simply removed

Other thin-edge processes can use this broker as an inter-process communication mechanism by publishing and
subscribing to various MQTT topics.
Any data can be forwarded to the connected cloud-provider as well, by publishing the data to some standard topics.

### Sending Telemetry Data to thin-edge.io

All topics with the prefix `tedge/` are reserved by `thin-edge.io` for this purpose.
To send measurements to `thin-edge.io`, the measurements represented in Thin Edge JSON format can be published
to the `tedge/measurements` topic.
Other processes running on the thin-edge device can subscribe to this topic to process these measurements.

If the messages published to this `tedge/measurements` topic is not a well-formed Thin Edge JSON,

> then that message won’t be processed by `thin-edge.io`, not even partially,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then these messages won’t be processed by `thin-edge.io`, not even partially,
```
To align with the plurality in the first sentence.

Author: Fixed

| `tedge/measurements/${child-id}`                     | Measurements related to the child device named `${child-id}`           |
| `tedge/events/${event-type}`                         | Events related to the main device                                      |
| `tedge/events/${event-type/${child-id}`              | Events related to the child device named `${child-id}`                 |
| `tedge/alarms/${severity}/${alarm-type}`             | Alarms related to the main device                                      |
| `tedge/alarms/${severity}/${alarm-type}/${child-id}` | Alarms related to the child device named `${child-id}`                 |
| `tedge/errors`                                       | Error messages emitted by `thin-edge.io` while processing measurements |

### Sending Telemetry Data to the cloud

The `thin-edge.io` framework allows users forward telemetry data generated and published to one of the
`tedge/#` MQTT topics from the thin-edge device to any IoT cloud provider that it is connected to,
with the help of a *mapper* component designed for that cloud.

> The responsibility of a mapper is to subscribe to the `tedge/#` topic to receive all incoming measurements, events and alarms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The responsibility of a mapper is to subscribe to the `tedge/#` topic to receive all incoming data
```
Just to be broader to cover operations data as well

Author: Updated

represented in the cloud vendor neutral Thin Edge JSON format, to a format that the connected cloud understands.
Refer to [Cloud Message Mapper Architecture](./tedge-mapper.md) for more details on the mapper component.

## Measurements

*Measurements* carry values from physical sensors, the domain application or monitored processes.
For instance:
- voltage and current of an electricity meter

> - state of the manufacturing control process

Reviewer: Not sure if modelling the `state of something`, which is less dynamic, as a measurement is a good suggestion to the end-user. Unfortunately we don't have an alternative like `properties` at the moment.

- free disk space on the device

Thin Edge JSON can be used to represent single-valued measurements, multi-valued measurements
or a combination of both along with some auxiliary data like the timestamp at which the measurement(s) was generated.

### Single-valued measurements

> Simple single-valued measurements like temperature or pressure measurement with a single value can be expressed as follows:

Reviewer 2: Not your edit but a general fix on the wording, as the fact that is relates to "single value" measurements was repeated.

```suggestion
Simple single-valued measurements like temperature or pressure can be expressed as follows:
```

Author: Updated

```sh te2mqtt

> tedge mqtt pub /tedge/measurements '{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tedge mqtt pub tedge/measurements '{
```
All the other samples in this doc also starts with `/tedge/` instead of `tedge/`. Please fix them all.

  "temperature": 25
}'
```

> where the key represents the measurement type, and the value represents the measurement value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The key represents the measurement type, and the value represents the measurement value.
```

Author: Updated

> The keys can only have alphanumeric characters, and the "_" (underscore) character but must not start with an underscore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The keys can only have alphanumeric characters, and the underscore (`_`) character but must not start with an underscore.
```

Author: fixed

The values can only be numeric.
String, Boolean or other JSON object values are not allowed.

### Multi-valued measurements

> A multi-valued measurement is a measurement that is comprised of multiple values. Here is the representation of a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like the name suggests, a multi-valued measurement is allowed to contain more than one value. Here is the representation of a
```

Author: Updated

`three_phase_current` measurement that consists of `L1`, `L2` and `L3` values, representing the current on each phase:

```sh te2mqtt
tedge mqtt pub /tedge/measurements '{
  "three_phase_current": {
    "L1": 9.5,
    "L2": 10.3,
    "L3": 8.8
  }
}'
```

> where the key is the top-level measurement type and value is a JSON object having further key-value pairs 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The key is the top-level measurement type and value is a JSON object having further key-value pairs 
```

Author: Fixed

representing each aspect of the multi-valued measurement.
Only one level of nesting is allowed, meaning the values of the measurement keys at the inner level can only be numeric values.
For example, a multi-level measurement as follows is NOT valid: 

> 

Reviewer 2: I would add a more explicit sub heading (bold) text to highlight that it is an invalid example, as it is easy to overlook the sentence mentioning that it is an invalid example:

```suggestion

❌ **Example: Invalid measurement due to nesting > 2 levels**
```

Author: Added

      "L3": 8.8
    }
  }
}'
```

> because the values at the second level(`phase1`, `phase2` and `phase3`) are not numeric values.

Reviewer 2: This sentence might not be needed anymore if the bold text before the example already explains why the example is invalid (though in slightly different words)

Author: Removed

| time | Timestamp in ISO 8601 string format |
| type | Internal to `thin-edge.io` |

## Events

*Events* are notifications that something happened on the device, its environment, the domain application or the software system.
For instance:
- a door has been closed
- a process started
- a user has started an ssh session

> ```sh te2mqtt
> tedge mqtt pub /tedge/events/login '{
>   "text": "A user just logged in",     // 'text' message of that event
>   "time": "2021-01-01T05:30:45+00:00"  // optional 'timestamp' of that event
>   "someOtherCustomFragment": {         // free 'custom fragments'
>     "nested": {
>       "value": "extra info"
>     }
>   }
> }'
> ```

Reviewer 2: Removing comment lines as it is defined in a literal string.

```suggestion
```sh te2mqtt
tedge mqtt pub /tedge/events/login '{
  "text": "A user just logged in",
  "time": "2021-01-01T05:30:45+00:00"
  "someOtherCustomFragment": {
    "nested": {
      "value": "extra info"
    }
  }
}'
```
```

Author: Fixed

|Reference           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------ |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> |`event-type`        | a string part of the MQTT topic, that identifies the event uniquely in context of the device                                                                                               |

Reviewer 2: Using an underscore `_` ensures the work does not get split over two lines.

```suggestion
|`event_type`        | a string part of the MQTT topic, that identifies the event uniquely in context of the device                                                                                               |
```

Author: Updated

> |`text`              | carries a human readable event-text; must be UTF-8 encoded                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`text`              | A human readable text about the event; must be UTF-8 encoded                                                                                                                                 |
```

Author: Updated

> |`timestamp`         | optional time that indicates when the event has occurred; when not provided, thin-edge.io uses the current system time as the time of the event; when provided must be conform to ISO 8601 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`timestamp`         | Optional time that indicates when the event occurred; when not provided, thin-edge.io uses the current system time as the time of the event; when provided must be conform to ISO 8601 |
```

Author: Fixed

> |`timestamp`         | optional time that indicates when the event has occurred; when not provided, thin-edge.io uses the current system time as the time of the event; when provided must be conform to ISO 8601 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`timestamp`         | Optional time that indicates when the event occurred, in ISO 8601 string format; when not provided, thin-edge.io uses the current system time as the time of the event|
```

Author: Updated

> |`custom fragments`  | additional fields are handled as custom specific information; if the connected cloud supports custom fragments its mapper transfers those accordingly to the cloud                         |

Author: Updated

## Alarms

*Alarms* are notifications about some critical behaviour of the device's environment or software system.
For instance:
- a temperature going out of its valid range
- a process that crashed
- free disk space going critically low

> ```sh te2mqtt
> tedge mqtt pub /tedge/alarms/warning/temperature_high '{
>   "text": "Temperature is very high",  // 'text' message of that alarm
>   "time": "2021-01-01T05:30:45+00:00", // optional 'timestamp' of that alarm
>   "someOtherCustomFragment": {         // free 'custom fragments'
>     "nested": {
>       "value": "extra info"
>     }
>   }
> }'
> ```

Reviewer 2: Removing the json command lines as they can't be used inside a literal string (`''`).

```suggestion
```sh te2mqtt
tedge mqtt pub /tedge/alarms/warning/temperature_high '{
  "text": "Temperature is very high",
  "time": "2021-01-01T05:30:45+00:00",
  "someOtherCustomFragment": {
    "nested": {
      "value": "extra info"
    }
  }
}'
```
```

Author: Fixed

|Reference           |Description|
| ------------------ | --------- |

> |`alarm-type`        |a string part of the MQTT topic, that identifies the alarm uniquely in context of the device|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`alarm_type`        |a string part of the MQTT topic, that identifies the alarm uniquely in context of the device|
```

Author: Updated

> |`severity`          |a string part of the MQTT topic, that indicates the severity of the alarm; must be `critical`, `major`, `minor` or `warning`|
> |`text`              |carries a human readable alarm-text; must be UTF-8 encoded|
> |`timestamp`         |optional time that indicates when the alarm has occurred; when not provided, thin-edge.io uses the current system time as the time of the alarm; when provided must be conform to ISO 8601|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`severity`          |A string part of the MQTT topic, that indicates the severity of the alarm; must be `critical`, `major`, `minor` or `warning`|
|`text`              |A human readable text about the alarm; must be UTF-8 encoded|
|`time`         |Optional time that indicates when the alarm occurred; when not provided, thin-edge.io uses the current system time as the time of the alarm; when provided must be conform to ISO 8601|
```

Author: Updated

> |`custom fragments`  |additional fields are handled as custom specific information; if the connected cloud supports custom fragments its mapper transfers those accordingly to the cloud|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`*`  |additional fields are handled as custom specific information; if the connected cloud supports custom fragments its mapper transfers those accordingly to the cloud|
```

Author: Updated
